Selena Marie Gomez ( / s ə ˈ l iː n ə ˈ ɡ oʊ m ɛ z / sə- LEE -nə GOH -mez ; born July 22, 1992) is an American actress, singer, songwriter, producer, and businesswoman. Gomez began her career as a child actress, appearing on the children's television series Barney & Friends (2002–2004), and emerged as a teen idol for her leading role as Alex Russo on the Disney Channel sitcom Wizards of Waverly Place (2007–2012). She signed with Hollywood Records in 2008 and formed the band Selena Gomez & the Scene , which released three successful albums: Kiss & Tell (2009), A Year Without Rain (2010), and When the Sun Goes Down (2011).
Gomez has since released three solo studio albums that debuted atop the US Billboard 200 . Her EDM -infused debut record, Stars Dance (2013), yielded the international top-ten single " Come & Get It ". She moved to Interscope Records and released the electropop album Revival (2015), supported by the top-ten singles " Good for You ", " Same Old Love ", and " Hands to Myself ". Its follow-up, the dance-pop -influenced Rare (2020), contained her first Billboard Hot 100 number-one single " Lose You to Love Me ". Gomez then released the Spanish EP Revelación (2021), which earned her nominations at the Grammys and Latin Grammy Awards . It was followed by her fourth studio album I Said I Love You First (2025), a collaborative project with Benny Blanco . Gomez has released many collaborative singles, including " We Don't Talk Anymore ", " It Ain't Me ", " Wolves ", " Taki Taki ", and " Calm Down (Remix) ", the last of which is widely regarded as the most successful Afrobeats song of all time.
Gomez has starred in films such as Another Cinderella Story (2008), Monte Carlo (2011), Spring Breakers (2012), The Fundamentals of Caring (2016), The Dead Don't Die (2019), and Emilia Pérez (2024). She also voiced Mavis in the Hotel Transylvania film franchise (2012–2022). Gomez has produced series such as 13 Reasons Why (2017–2020), Living Undocumented (2019) and Selena + Chef (2020–2023), and has played a lead role in Only Murders in the Building since 2021. Her accolades include an American Music Award , a Billboard Music Award , a Cannes Film Festival Award , two MTV Video Music Awards , a Screen Actors Guild Award and 16 Guinness World Records .
Gomez has worked with charitable organizations. She advocates for mental health , and gender , racial , and LGBT equality , and has been a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador since 2009. She founded the cosmetic company Rare Beauty in 2020, valued at $2 billion in 2024, and non-profit Rare Impact Fund . She has appeared in listicles such as the Time 100 (2020) and Forbes 30 Under 30 (2016 and 2020), was named Billboard ' s Woman of the Year (2017), and was made a member of the Order of Arts and Letters by the Government of France (2024). She is the most-followed woman on Instagram, and among the wealthiest musicians .
Early life
Selena Marie Gomez was born on July 22, 1992, in Grand Prairie, Texas ,  to Ricardo Joel Gomez and Texas-born  former stage actress Mandy Teefey.  She was named after Tejano singer Selena Quintanilla , who died in 1995.   Her father is of Mexican descent, while her mother, who was adopted, has Italian ancestry.    Gomez's paternal grandparents emigrated to Texas from Monterrey , Mexico in the 1970s.  Gomez has said she is "a proud third-generation American-Mexican"  and once said "My family does have quinceañeras , and we go to the communion church. We do everything that's Catholic, but we don't really have anything traditional except go to the park and have barbecues on Sundays after church."  Gomez's Spanish fluency waned after age seven, when she began working on television. 
Her parents divorced when she was five years old, and she remained with her mother.   Gomez has two younger half-sisters and a younger stepbrother as a result of her parents' remarriages. Her mother and her second husband, Brian Teefey, had a daughter, Gracie Elliot Teefey, born in 2013.   Her father and his second wife, Sara, had a girl, Victoria "Tori", and a boy, Marcus Gomez.  For most of her childhood, she was homeschooled , save for a brief period when she attended a traditional school as a young girl.  She earned her high-school diploma through homeschooling in May 2010. 
Gomez was born when her mother was 16 years old.  The family had financial troubles throughout Gomez's childhood, with her mother struggling to provide for the pair. At one point, Gomez recalls that they had to search for quarters to buy gas for their car. Her mother later recalled that the two would frequently walk to their local dollar store to buy spaghetti for dinner. 
Gomez has said, "I was frustrated that my parents weren't together, and never saw the light at the end of the tunnel where my mom was working hard to provide a better life for me. I'm terrified of what I would have become if I'd stayed ."  She later added that her mother "was really strong around me. Having me at 16 had to have been a big responsibility. She gave up everything for me, had three jobs, supported me, sacrificed her life for me." Gomez had a close relationship with her grandparents as a child and appeared in various pageants. Her grandparents often took care of her while her parents finished their schooling, and she has said they "raised her" until she found success in show business. 
Career
2002–2006: Career beginnings
Gomez first gained an interest in pursuing a career in entertainment watching her mother prepare for stage productions.  In 2002, she began her acting career on the children's television series Barney & Friends ,   portraying the character Gianna.  The show was her first acting gig. Gomez recalled of the experience, "I was very shy when I was little  I didn't know what 'camera right' was. I didn't know what blocking was. I learned everything from Barney ."  Gomez appeared in thirteen episodes of the show between 2002 and 2004; the show's producers released her "when she became too old" for the series.  While working on Barney & Friends , Gomez had bit part roles in the film Spy Kids 3-D: Game Over (2003) and the made-for-television film Walker, Texas Ranger: Trial by Fire (2005).   She guest starred in a 2006 episode of the Disney Channel series The Suite Life of Zack & Cody .  
2007–2012: Breakthrough with Disney and Selena Gomez & the Scene
Gomez was given a recurring role on the Disney Channel series Hannah Montana in 2007 as pop star Mikayla.  During this time, Gomez filmed pilot episodes for two potential Disney Channel series; the first was a Suite Life spin-off titled Arwin! ,  and the second was a Lizzie McGuire spin-off titled What's Stevie Thinking?   She later auditioned for a role in the network's series Wizards of Waverly Place , ultimately winning the lead role of Alex Russo .  Gomez and her mother subsequently moved to Los Angeles . 
In Wizards of Waverly Place , Gomez played a teenage girl in a family of wizards who own a restaurant in New York City .  It quickly became a success for the Disney Channel and marked Gomez's breakthrough into the mainstream.  The role brought Gomez " teen idol " status,   and she became one of the ten highest-paid children's TV stars of all time.   The series received numerous awards and nominations,   and won the Outstanding Children's Program at the 61st Primetime Emmy Awards .  It garnered positive reviews   and particular praise for Gomez's comic timing and sarcastic delivery.   
In 2008, while working on the second season of Wizards of Waverly Place , Gomez voiced Helga in the animated film Horton Hears a Who!  The film became a commercial and critical success,  grossing over US$300 million worldwide. 
Gomez  starred as an aspiring dancer Mary Santiago in the teen musical comedy film Another Cinderella Story , the second installment of the A Cinderella Story series , released on direct-to-video.  This role earned her a Young Artist Award .   She contributed three songs to the soundtrack , including the single " Tell Me Something I Don't Know ",   which became her first entry on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.  She also recorded the song "Fly to Your Heart" for the soundtrack of the animated film Tinker Bell .  That same year, at age 16, Gomez signed with Hollywood Records ,   and formed her own production company, July Moon Production.  Gomez was slated to release two films under the company. The first, titled What Boys Want , would feature Gomez as a girl who could hear the thoughts of men.  She later announced a film adaptation of the novel Thirteen Reasons Why , in which she was to play a young girl who commits suicide; ultimately, neither film was made.  Gomez later produced a television adaptation of the novel. 
Gomez continued to enjoy mainstream success throughout the following year, appearing as Alex Russo in a crossover episode of the Disney Channel series The Suite Life on Deck in 2009.  She made a guest appearance on the Disney Channel series Sonny with a Chance .  She appeared in a remix of the Forever the Sickest Kids ' single " Whoa Oh! (Me vs. Everyone) " in April of that year.  Gomez, along with Demi Lovato , starred in the Disney Channel film Princess Protection Program , which aired in June 2009.  The film had a total of 8.5 million viewers during its premiere.  The pair recorded the song " One and the Same " for the film's soundtrack.  She next starred in Wizards of Waverly Place: The Movie , a television film based on the series.  The film premiered in August to an audience of 11.4 million viewers, becoming cable's number-one scripted telecast of the year and was the second-most watched TV movie on cable, behind High School Musical 2 .    Roxana Hadadi of The Washington Post credited all three performers—Gomez, David Henrie and Jake T. Austin —for their "acting skills that carry the film".  The film won the series its second consecutive Emmy for Outstanding Children's Program at the 62nd Primetime Emmy Awards .  Gomez recorded three songs on the television series and film's soundtrack , including the single " Magic ".   She later provided the voice of Princess Selenia in the English-language version of the French animated/live-action film Arthur and the Revenge of Maltazard . 
Hoping to cross over into the music industry, Gomez formed the pop rock band Selena Gomez & the Scene under her deal with Hollywood Records.  The name of the band is an "ironic jab" at the people who called Gomez a "wannabe scene ".  The group's debut studio album, Kiss & Tell , influenced by pop rock and electronic rock , was released in September 2009.   It debuted at number nine on the Billboard 200 albums chart in the U.S. with first-week sales of 66,000 copies.  The album received mixed reviews, with some critics praising its "fun" nature and others criticizing Gomez's vocal performance.    Although the lead single was not commercially successful,  the second single, " Naturally ", became a breakthrough hit, reaching number twenty-nine in the U.S. and number seven in the United Kingdom.  
In 2010, Gomez starred alongside Joey King in Ramona and Beezus , a film adaptation of the children's novel series by Beverly Cleary , in which she portrayed Beezus Quimby .   The film was well received by critics;  Roger Ebert described it as "a sweet salute", and found both actresses "appealing".  Additionally, Gomez reprised the voice role of Princess Selenia in Arthur 3: The War of the Two Worlds .  That same year, Selena Gomez & the Scene released their second studio album A Year Without Rain ,  which debuted on the U.S. Billboard 200 at number four with sales of over 66,000.  The album received mixed to positive reviews, where some critics reacting negatively to Gomez's Auto-Tuned vocals.  Both of the record's singles, " Round & Round " and " A Year Without Rain ", achieved moderate success.  The band was awarded Favorite Breakout Artist at the 37th People's Choice Awards .  The band's third and final studio album, When the Sun Goes Down , was released the following year, to mixed reviews.  It debuted at number four on the U.S. Billboard 200 with first-week sales of 78,000 copies, and peaked at number three the following week.  The album's lead single, " Who Says ", was the band's highest charting effort, peaking at number twenty-one in the U.S.  Its second single, " Love You like a Love Song ", went on to become the band's highest performing single in the U.S. to date,  peaking at number twenty-two on the Billboard Hot 100, where it spent 38 weeks,  and reached the top ten in Canada,  topping the chart in Russia .  Alex Frank from Pitchfork called the song "a cult karaoke classic".  In 2022, Billboard ranked the song as the biggest song that peaked at number twenty-two.  Billboard featured Gomez on their 21 Under 21 list in 2010,  2011,  and 2012. 
Gomez starred in the comedy film Monte Carlo (2011), with Leighton Meester and Katie Cassidy ;   she played the lead role of Grace, a teenager "mistaken for a socialite" named Cordelia, also portrayed by Gomez, "while on a trip to Paris".   In preparation for the role, she learned to play polo and received dialect coaching to speak in two different British accents;   Gomez's accent was described as "unconvincing".  The film received mixed reviews from critic.  Nick Schager from Slant Magazine found Gomez "cute, but too bland to lend the proceedings any vivid character, except for the few scenes that allow her to indulge her cold, sarcastic, nasty side as Cordelia".  Gomez appeared in a cameo role in the film The Muppets .  She also hosted in June the MuchMusic Video Awards , and in November the MTV Europe Music Awards .  
2012–2014: Stars Dance and films
Gomez confirmed in January 2012 that she would be taking a break from music, placing Selena Gomez & the Scene on hiatus.  The hiatus eventually became a permanent split. Gomez described her time with the band as an "exploratory period" as a musician, after which she decided to pursue a solo music career: "And there was a moment when I felt like I could do it and I wanted to try it on my own".  That year, Wizards of Waverly Place officially ended its run on the Disney Channel after four seasons.  
Gomez starred in the exploitation film Spring Breakers (2012), alongside James Franco , Vanessa Hudgens , Ashley Benson and Rachel Korine . It was directed by Harmony Korine .  The film premiered in September at the 69th Venice International Film Festival ,  and was released the following year.  The story followed four college-aged girls who decide to rob a fast food restaurant in order to pay for their spring break .  Gomez played a more mature character than she had previously and reportedly had a "bit of a meltdown on set".  Spring Breakers received generally positive reviews from critics.  Some described it as a potential cult classic .  The film entered various retrospective "best of" lists,  including the BBC's 100 Greatest Films of the 21st Century .  Manohla Dargis from The New York Times wrote that this role gave her "the chance to simulate the behavior that feeds the tabloids without the humiliations and career-crushing price paid". 
Gomez played the voice role of Mavis Dracula in the animated film Hotel Transylvania ,  which premiered in September at the 2012 Toronto International Film Festival ,  and was released in theaters the same month to mixed reviews.   Hotel Transylvania was commercially successful, grossing US$358 million worldwide.  In 2013, Gomez starred alongside Ethan Hawke in the action thriller film Getaway , in which she played a young hacker .  The film was a critical and commercial failure,  and earned Gomez a nomination for Worst Actress at the 34th Golden Raspberry Awards .  Christopher Orr of The Atlantic described her as "a kid trying desperately to act like a grownup, but with no real idea what that might entail".  She also served as executive producer and starred in the television special The Wizards Return: Alex vs. Alex on the Disney Channel. 
Despite earlier claims that she would be taking a break from music,  Gomez released " Come & Get It " in  April 2013; it served as the lead single of her solo debut album.  It became Gomez's first top-ten entry on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100, reaching number six,   and also reached the top-ten in Canada and the U.K.  Stars Dance was released in July.  The record is musically rooted in EDM and electropop .   It became her first album to debut at number one in the U.S., selling 97,000 copies in its first week,   and also reached number one in Canada.  It received mixed reviews from music critics, with some noticing her inability to create her own musical identity and panning her vocal abilities.   The album's second single, " Slow Down ", achieved moderate success.  Gomez incorporated choreographed dance routines into the album's music videos and her promotional live performances, having been inspired by artists such as Janet Jackson and Britney Spears .   The video of "Come & Get It" won the Best Pop Video at the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards . 
Gomez embarked on her Stars Dance Tour in August 2013.  After performing in North America and Europe, Gomez canceled the Australian and Asian legs of the tour in December 2013, claiming that she would be taking a hiatus to spend time with her family.  In January 2014, it was reported that Gomez had spent two weeks at Dawn at The Meadows, which is a treatment center in Wickenburg, Arizona , that specializes in treating addiction and trauma in young people.  Her representative stated that she had spent time there "voluntarily  but not for substance abuse".   Gomez confirmed in 2015 that she had been diagnosed with lupus and that after canceling the tour she entered rehab to undergo chemotherapy .   Gomez played Nina Pennington, an innocent straight-A student, in Behaving Badly (2014).   The project, filmed prior to Gomez's stint in rehab, was released in August to a generally negative critical and commercial reception.   However, critics deemed Gomez's performance superior to the film.   Gomez also had a supporting role in the drama Rudderless (2014), the directorial debut of William H. Macy .   The independent film premiered at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival ,  and received a mixed reception from critics.   At the 2014 Teen Choice Awards , Gomez was honored with the Ultimate Choice Award for her "contributions to the entertainment world". 
In April 2014, Gomez had fired her mother and stepfather as her managers, who had served in those roles since her career at Disney.  Gomez later signed with the WMA and Brillstein companies to manage her career.  The Hollywood Reporter informed: "Selena's desire to find fresh handlers is part of a strategy to "move on into more adult-oriented fare in film and music"", and finally get rid of the image of the "Disney's Teen Idol".  This change fueled rumors that her contract with Hollywood Records was coming to an end.  In November 2014, Gomez surprise-released her new single " The Heart Wants What It Wants ", and confirmed after months of speculation that she would be releasing a compilation album to complete her contract with her label .  The single became her second top-ten hit in the U.S.,  and reached the top-ten in Canada.  That same month, Gomez released her first greatest hits album , For You .  The compilation album debuted at number twenty-four on the U.S. Billboard 200,  earning 35,506 album-equivalent units in its first week.  Gomez officially parted ways with Hollywood Records and later signed with Interscope Records in December 2014. 
2015–2016: Revival
While working on her second studio album , Gomez collaborated with German DJ Zedd on " I Want You to Know ", released in February 2015,  and debuted at number-seventeen in the U.S.  In May, she appeared in Taylor Swift 's music video for " Bad Blood ".  Gomez released " Good for You " featuring rapper ASAP Rocky as the lead single from her second studio album, in June.  The song debuted at number-one on the Digital Song Sales chart with first-week sales of 179,000 copies—the best sales week in Gomez's career for a single.  "Good for You" became Gomez's first top-five single on the Billboard Hot 100, and her first single to top the Pop Airplay chart.  It also reached the top-ten on charts in Australia and Canada.  Gomez later reprised the voice role of Mavis in Hotel Transylvania 2 (2015); the film was met with a positive critical reception and commercial success upon release,  grossing US$474 million worldwide.  She was awarded Favorite Animated Movie Voice at the 42nd People's Choice Awards . 
Gomez released her second studio album, Revival , in October 2015.  It is primarily a dance-pop and electropop record with R&B vibes.   The album was reviewed positively by critics, who praised its production and lyrical content.  Writing for Rolling Stone , Brittany Spanos stated that " Revival is an audacious name for a 23-year-old singer's second album, but from start to finish, Gomez earns it," noting that "his is the sound of a newly empowered pop artist growing into her strengths like never before."  Kristen S.Hé of Billboard called it "one of the most influential pop albums of the late 2010s."  Rob  Sheffileld from Rolling Stone Australia called it "one of the past decade's most influential pop albums. (You could say it did for the 2010s what Blackout did for the 2000s.)".  The album debuted at number-one on the U.S. Billboard 200 with first-week sales of 117,000 album units ,  and was certified platinum by the RIAA.  It remains Gomez's highest first-week sales to date.  " Same Old Love " was released as the album's second single and topped the Pop Airplay chart.   It also peaked at number-five in the U.S., tying with "Good for You" as Gomez's highest-charting single at the time,  and reached the top-ten in Canada.  " Hands to Myself " served as the album's third single and became her third consecutive number-one on the Pop Airplay,  making Gomez the sixth woman to score at least three number-one singles on the Pop Airplay chart from a single set.  The single also peaked within the top-ten in the U.S.,  and the top-five in Canada.  " Kill Em with Kindness " was released as the Revival 's fourth and final single four months later.  For her performance on Billboard ' s music charts, Gomez received the Chart-Topper Award at the 2015 Billboard Women in Music event. 
Gomez was a key advisor during the ninth season of the reality singing competition The Voice .  She made a cameo appearance in Adam McKay 's film The Big Short (2015).  In 2016, Gomez starred as Dot, a young runaway hitchhiker, in the comedy-drama The Fundamentals of Caring with Paul Rudd ,   which premiered at the Sundance Film Festival in January, and was released on Netflix five months later.  The film received a positive critical response;  Tristram Fane Saunders of The Daily Telegraph described Gomez's performance as "impressive" and "mature".  Gomez performed as the musical guest on an episode of the NBC late-night sketch comedy Saturday Night Live in January 2016.  Gomez played the president of a sorority in the comedy Neighbors 2: Sorority Rising (2016);  the film grossed US$108 million worldwide,  and received mixed to positive reviews. 
Gomez embarked on her worldwide Revival Tour in May 2016.   She claimed that the tour would focus solely on her as an artist and would feature less choreography and fewer effects than her previous tour .  Gomez began working on her third studio album while touring and added a new song titled " Feel Me " to the setlist of her Revival Tour.  The song was later released in February 2020, due to high demand from fans.  After touring in North America, Asia and Oceania, she canceled the European and South America legs in August 2016 due to anxiety, panic attacks and depression caused by her lupus. 
Gomez featured on Charlie Puth 's single, " We Don't Talk Anymore ".  The song was an international success,  and reached the top-ten in the U.S., Australia, France , Spain , and topped the charts in Italy ;  and was certified 5× platinum by the RIAA.  The music video became the most-viewed music video published in 2016 on YouTube ,  with over 3 billion views.  Gomez had a supporting role in In Dubious Battle (2016) starring and directed by James Franco .  The film had its world premiere at the 73rd Venice International Film Festival ,  and was met with underwhelming reviews.  She also guest starred in the Comedy Central variety sketch series Inside Amy Schumer .  Gomez and Canadian singer Tory Lanez were featured on Norwegian DJ Cashmere Cat 's single, " Trust Nobody ". 
Following the cancelation of her tour, Gomez rechecked into rehab to focus on her mental health and was noticeably absent from social media .  At that time, she was the most followed person on Instagram ,  and became the first person to reach 100 million followers on the platform.  In February 2023, she regained her status as the most-followed woman on the platform ,  and became the first woman to reach 400 million followers the following month.  Gomez made her first public appearance since entering rehab at the 2016 American Music Awards ,  where she was nominated for Favorite Pop/Rock Female Artist and Artist of the Year , the first of which she won.  And her spirited speech became one of the most-powerful awards show speeches in recent history.  At the 2016 iHeartRadio Music Awards , Gomez won Biggest Triple Threat,  and at the 2016 Billboard Music Awards , she was nominated for two awards including Top Female Artist .  In the same year, she was named to Forbes ' 30 Under 30 list in the music category,  and again in 2020 in its "All-Star Alumni" category. 
2017–2019: Standalone releases and 13 Reasons Why
Gomez and the Norwegian DJ Kygo released a single together, " It Ain't Me ", in February 2017.  The collaboration reached top ten of most major music charts worldwide, including the U.S. and the U.K.,   and attained top five peaks in Australia, Canada, Germany and many European countries.  The song received nominations at major awards around the world,  including Top Dance/Electronic Song at the 2018 Billboard Music Awards ,  and it also her best-selling song in the UK, selling over 1.4 million chart units. 
Gomez served as executive producer for the series adaptation of the novel Thirteen Reasons Why .  The show premiered on Netflix in March 2017.  The series drew backlash from various mental health charities and suicide prevention communities over "dangerous content", with some people feeling the show glamorized suicide. Gomez addressed the controversy, saying that "We stayed very true to the book and that's initially what  Jay Asher created was a beautifully tragic, complicated yet suspenseful story and I think that's what we wanted to do. We wanted to do it justice and, yeah,  gonna come no matter what. It's not an easy subject to talk about, but I'm very fortunate with how it's doing.  Despite the controversy, the first season was a critical success.  However, the other three seasons received generally negative reviews.    13 Reasons Why was the most tweeted about show of 2017, and the most-watched original streaming series of 2018.   The series ended after four seasons in June 2020.  Gomez recorded a cover version of the song " Only You " for the series' first season soundtrack. 
In May 2017, Gomez released the single " Bad Liar ", alongside a vertical music video which was available for streaming only through Spotify ;  it was the first-ever music video to premiere on Spotify.  The song received universal acclaim from music critics,    with some deeming it Gomez's best song to date;  Billboard ranked it as the best song of 2017.  Rolling Stone ranked "Bad Liar" at number 39 on its 2019 list of best songs of the 2010s.  Winston Cook-Wilson of Spin magazine found Gomez's vocals pristine and the track "charmingly weird", calling its lyrics and sample usage "harebrained but ultimately brilliant".  Gomez released the single " Fetish " featuring rapper Gucci Mane two month later.  In October 2017, Gomez and EDM producer Marshmello released the single " Wolves ".  The song was a commercial success, and reached the top ten on charts in Australia, Canada, the U.K, and several European countries,  peaking at number twenty in the U.S.  Later that year, Gomez was named Billboard ' s Woman of the Year , in recognition of her influence and commercial success. 
In May 2018, Gomez released the single " Back to You ", from the 13 Reasons Why Season 2 Soundtrack .  It reached the top-ten in a variety of charts in European countries ,  top-five in Australia and Canada,  and reached top-twenty in the U.S. and the U.K.  Gomez voiced Mavis again in Hotel Transylvania 3: Summer Vacation , which was released in July.   With box office earnings of US$528 million,  the film was a commercial success,  and received mixed to positive reviews.  Gomez featured on DJ Snake 's song " Taki Taki " alongside Ozuna and Cardi B , released in September.  The single achieved global success,  reaching the top-ten in Canada, France, Germany, Italy, topped the charts in Spain and several Latin American countries ,  and peaked at number eleven in the U.S.  The song has received numerous awards and nominations including, nominations for the two Billboard Music Awards and,  but ultimately won Song of the Year at the 2019 Latin American Music Awards .  From 2011 to 2018, Gomez had a streak of 16 consecutive top 40 hits on the Billboard Hot 100, which is the longest active run of any artist according to Billboard .  In November 2018, Gomez surpassed Drake and became Spotify's most-streamed artist with 46 million monthly listeners while not releasing new album since 2015 ( Ariana Grande later surpassed this record).   Gomez also featured on Julia Michaels 's single " Anxiety ", released in January 2019,  and the following month, her collaboration titled " I Can't Get Enough " with Benny Blanco , Tainy and J Balvin , was released. 
Gomez appeared in Jim Jarmusch 's comedy horror The Dead Don't Die (2019).  The film had its world premiere at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival ,  where it generated mixed reviews.   That year, she starred in Woody Allen 's romantic comedy A Rainy Day in New York , with Timothée Chalamet and Elle Fanning .   Due to a resurgence of the 1992 sexual abuse allegation against Allen prompted by the MeToo movement , Gomez made a donation of over $1 million, exceeding her salary from the film, to the Time's Up initiative.  The film received mixed reviews from critics,  but Gomez's performance was praised;   Variety 's Jessica Kiang wrote: "Gomez comes out the best of the younger cast, husking her way through some of the films better lines."  Gomez served as an executive producer for the Netflix docuseries Living Undocumented , released in October 2019,
which follows eight undocumented families in America.   The docuseries was a critical success,   and was nominated for a News and Documentary Emmy Award .  In an op-ed for Time on October 1, 2019, Gomez wrote she was approached about the project in 2017 and decided to become involved after watching footage that captured "the shame, uncertainty, and fear I saw my own family struggle with. But it also captured the hope, optimism, and patriotism so many undocumented immigrants still hold in their hearts despite the hell they go through." 
2020–2023: Rare , Revelación , and Only Murders in the Building
On October 23, 2019, Gomez released " Lose You to Love Me " as the lead single from her third studio album.  The next day, she surprise-released the album's promotional single, " Look at Her Now ".  "Lose You to Love Me" became her first number-one song in the US and Canada,   and reached the top five of various national charts worldwide, including Australia and the UK.  It was included in Billboard and Vulture ' s year-end lists of best songs of 2019;  the former named it as one of the "75 Best Breakup Songs of All Time".  Rare was released on January 10, 2020, and debuted atop the US Billboard 200, earning 112,000 album-equivalent units in its first week.  It became her third consecutive number-one album in the US,  and topped the charts in ten other territories, including Australia, Canada, and Scotland, whilst peaking at number two in the UK.   Primarily a dance-pop record,  Rare features elements of R&B , electronic music , and alternative pop .  The album received positive reviews from music critics, who praised its production and cohesiveness, with many calling it Gomez's best album to date;   Jem Aswad of Variety labeled Rare "one of the best pop albums to be released in recent memory".  Two other singles were released from the album: the title track , in conjunction with the album, and the third and final single " Boyfriend ",  released with the deluxe edition in April 2020. 
In January 2020, Gomez voiced a giraffe in the adventure film Dolittle , directed by Stephen Gaghan .   The film, starring Robert Downey Jr. , was a box office disappointment , and received negative reviews from critics, who called it "too long  lifeless".  Gomez hosted and executive produced the HBO Max cooking show Selena + Chef , which features her joined by a different chef each episode; this was initially implemented remotely due to the COVID-19 pandemic .  Each episode highlights a food-related charity.  The show premiered in August 2020,  and was well received by critics.   It ran for four seasons till September 2022,  and was nominated for Outstanding Culinary Series at the 50th Daytime Emmy Awards .  Gomez won a Critics' Choice Real TV Award for her work on the program.  In May 2023, Food Network ordered two projects to be hosted by Gomez.  The first was Selena + Chef: Home for the Holidays (2023), a four-part holiday special and extension of Selena + Chef , which was also nominated for Outstanding Culinary Series.   The second became Selena + Restaurant , an interactive cooking series co-hosted with Raquelle Stevens; it premiered in May 2024.  Gomez served as a producer for both programs.  
In June 2020, Gomez featured in a remix of Trevor Daniel 's song, " Past Life ".  Gomez executive produced two films that year; the romantic comedy The Broken Hearts Gallery ,  released in September 2020, to positive reviews,   and the teen comedy-drama This Is the Year .  In August, she collaborated with South Korean girl group Blackpink for " Ice Cream ".  The song peaked at number thirteen in the US,  and achieved the third-highest 24-hour debut for a music video on YouTube at the time, with over 79 million views.  That year, Gomez was honored by The Latin Recording Academy as one of the Leading Ladies of Entertainment .  She was also named by Time as one of the 100 most influential people in the world . 
Gomez released her first Spanish-language project, an EP titled Revelación , in March 2021.  The record blends reggaeton , latin pop , R&B genres with urbano elements, marking a departure from the dance-pop sound of its predecessor, Rare .   It debuted at number twenty-two in the US,  shifting 23,000 equivalent album units in its first week of release, marking the largest sales week for a Latin album by a woman at the time, since Shakira 's El Dorado in 2017.  It also debuted atop the Billboard Top Latin Albums chart, becoming the first album by a woman to do so, also since 2017's El Dorado .  The EP received universal acclaim according to Metacritic , a website collecting reviews from professional music critics;  it was nominated for Best Latin Pop Album at the 64th Annual Grammy Awards .  It also received Latin Pop Album of the Year nominations from the Billboard Latin Music , Latin American Music and Lo Nuestro award ceremonies.    Gomez's expansion of her artistry was praised;    Entertainment Weekly 's Marcus Jones called her "a far more versatile musician than she's been given credit for".  It spawned three singles: " De Una Vez ", " Baila Conmigo " with Rauw Alejandro , and " Selfish Love " with DJ Snake .   With this EP and the single "Baila Conmigo", she became the first female act to top the US Latin Albums and Latin Airplay charts simultaneously in over a decade.  The music video for "De Una Vez" was nominated for Best Short Form Music Video at the 22nd Annual Latin Grammy Awards .  Gomez performed at the 2021 UEFA Champions League final opening ceremony in May.  In August, she collaborated with Colombian singer Camilo on a song titled " 999 ". 
Gomez starred in and executive produced the mystery-comedy series Only Murders in the Building alongside Steve Martin and Martin Short ,  which premiered on Hulu in August 2021,  and set the record for the most-watched comedy premiere in the platform's history.  Ahead of the official premiere of the series, Gomez revealed that she was happy to have played a character that matched her current actual age, saying that she "signed  life away" to The Walt Disney Company at the start of her career and that she "did not know what she was doing".  As of August 2024, Only Murders in the Building is the most-watched original comedy series on Hulu.  The series has received critical acclaim throughout its four-season run,  and won numerous accolades .   The performances and chemistry among the main trio were praised by critics;    Richard Roeper of the Chicago Sun-Times wrote: "Gomez is a true co-star in the series and does a superb job of meshing with Martin and Short to form one of the more entertaining albeit unlikely friendship trios in recent memory."  Gomez won the Satellite Award for Best Actress – Television Series Musical or Comedy  and the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series ;  she was nominated for the Critics' Choice Television Award for Best Actress in a Comedy Series ,  and thrice for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Television Series Musical or Comedy .  Gomez received her first nomination for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series at the 76th Primetime Emmy Awards , marking the fourth time a Latina was a nominee for comedy series.  With a third consecutive nomination for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series in 2024, Gomez became the most-nominated Latina producer in the category's history. 
Gomez reprised the voice role of Mavis, and also served as an executive producer, for the fourth and final installment in the Hotel Transylvania franchise , Hotel Transylvania: Transformania (2022).  The film was released on Amazon Prime Video in January to mixed reviews.   Gomez was nominated as executive producer for a Children's and Family Emmy Award .  She collaborated with British band Coldplay on " Let Somebody Go ", released as a single in February.  For her work as a featured artist on Coldplay 's ninth studio album, Music of the Spheres , she was nominated for Album of the Year at the 65th Annual Grammy Awards .  In May, Gomez hosted an episode of the NBC late-night sketch comedy Saturday Night Live .  She later made a cameo appearance on the show in December.  In July, Gomez executive produced the ViX+ docuseries Mi Vecino, El Cartel . 
In August, Gomez was featured on the remix of Nigerian artist Rema 's song, " Calm Down ".  An international success, it peaked at number three on the Billboard Global 200 .  The single became Gomez's ninth top-ten in the US, peaking at number three; and her second number-one in Canada, spending nine weeks atop the Canadian Hot 100.   It topped the Global Excl. US, Pop Airplay, and Radio Songs charts for two, five, and 10 weeks, respectively,    becoming Gomez's first leader on the former two.   "Calm Down" became the highest- and longest-charting African artist-led song on the Hot 100;  the longest-running number-one of all time on the Billboard US Afrobeats Songs chart, with 58 weeks at the summit;  and the longest-charting song in the top 10 and overall on the Pop Airplay chart, with 45 and 71 weeks respectively.  Billboard called it " Afrobeats ' biggest crossover hit  while Variety described it as the "song of two summers".  At the 2023 MTV Video Music Awards , the song was nominated for Song of the Year , and won Best Afrobeats ; while it won Top Afrobeats Song at the 2023 Billboard Music Awards .   It became the first African artist-led track to reach 1 billion streams on Spotify  and 1 billion on-demand streams in the US; its music video became the most-viewed Afrobeats song on YouTube.   According to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), "Calm Down" was the second best-selling song of 2023 globally.  Billboard named it Gomez's biggest Hot 100 hit. 
Gomez was the focus of the Alek Keshishian -directed "raw and intimate" documentary film, Selena Gomez: My Mind & Me .  The film premiered at the AFI Fest in November 2022,  and was released two days after on Apple TV+ and in select movie theaters.   It was met with a positive critical reception upon release;  the documentary was praised for mental health transparency.   Chris Azzopardi from The New York Times described it as an "honest portrait study of stardom and mental illness".  The film was nominated for Outstanding Writing for a Nonfiction Programming at the Primetime Creative Arts Emmy Awards ,  and received the Seal of Female Empowerment in Entertainment honor by the Critics Choice Association ,  and also won the MTV Movie & TV Award for Best Music Documentary.  Gomez released the song " My Mind & Me " to coincide with the release of the documentary.  The song received Variety 's "Film Song of the Year" honor.  In March 2023, Gomez appeared in the second-season finale of the Apple TV+ documentary television series Dear... .   She released the standalone single " Single Soon " on August 25, 2023.  It reached the top-twenty of the Billboard Global 200, and in the US and Canada.   
2024–present: Continued acting and I Said I Love You First
In January 2024, Gomez stated that she prefers acting over music, and only has "one more album in me". She revealed that she "never really intended on being a singer full-time" but "that hobby" evolved into a career when she was working with Disney.  Gomez later mentioned feeling "a little too old for the pop-star life",  but has since retracted this and stated that "music isn't going away" and "I just set it down for a second".  In February, she released the standalone single " Love On ",  which debuted within the top 60 in the US, and the top 70 on the Global 200 chart.  
She played a supporting role as Jessi Del Monte, the title character's wife, in the Spanish-language musical crime comedy Emilia Pérez , directed by Jacques Audiard .   She took Spanish lessons for the role,  and performed two songs for the film's soundtrack .  The film premiered at the 77th Cannes Film Festival ,  where it won the Jury Prize  and received one of the longest standing ovations in festival history.  Gomez's performance received praise;  she was nominated for supporting actress categories at the 82nd Golden Globe Awards and the 78th British Academy Film Awards .   She and the female ensemble of the film collectively won the Cannes Film Festival Award for Best Actress ,  were nominated for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture at the 31st Screen Actors Guild Awards ,  and were honored, as chevaliers , with the Order of Arts and Letters by the government of France.  Gomez co-produced and appeared in the documentary Louder: The Soundtrack of Change , which was released on October 17 on Max .  She guest-starred and reprised her role as Alex Russo in the pilot and season one-finale of Wizards Beyond Waverly Place , the spin-off and sequel to Wizards of Waverly Place .   The series, which she also executive produced, premiered on Disney Channel and Disney+ on October 29, 2024.  Her performance, subtle comedic timing, and dynamic with co-star David Henrie was met with positive reception from critics. 
Gomez and Benny Blanco released the collaborative album, and her fourth studio album, I Said I Love You First on March 21, 2025.  A promotional single, titled " Scared of Loving You ", was surprise released on February 13.  It was followed by the lead single " Call Me When You Break Up ", featuring Gracie Abrams , on February 21,  and the second single " Sunset Blvd " on March 14.  I Said I Love You First was met with mixed to positive reception from music critics;  Dakota West Foss of Sputnikmusic called it Gomez's "strongest collection of songs to date".  The album debuted at number two on the Billboard 200, with 120,000 units, marking Gomez's largest sales week till date, and her seventh top-ten release.  I Said I Love You also debuted within the top five in various countries, including Australia, Germany, Ireland, and the United Kingdom. 
Artistry
Musical style
Gomez is described as a pop artist.    Her work is primarily characterized as dance-pop   and EDM ;   however, she has experimented with different music genres. Her debut album with the Scene was influenced by electronic rock and pop rock ,   while her subsequent records with the band opted for a dance-pop   sound. A Year Without Rain noted synth-pop characteristics,  and When the Sun Goes Down featured a more electropop  and electro-disco musical direction.  Her debut solo album Stars Dance was rooted in the EDM-pop   genre—Gomez herself described it as "baby dubstep "  —drawing elements from electronic , disco , techno , and dancehall .   Her songs " The Heart Wants What It Wants " and " Good for You " have been described as "minimalistic" and "grown-up",  introducing a more adult pop sound into her repertoire. 
Influences
Early in her career, Gomez cited Bruno Mars as an influence for "his style of music, his style in general, the way he performs, the way he carries himself".  Gomez has also cited Christina Aguilera , Britney Spears , Beyoncé , Rihanna , and Taylor Swift as influences.       Gomez's debut solo album Stars Dance (2013) was prominently influenced by Spears, Swift, and EDM producer Skrillex ;  her second album, Revival , was mainly inspired by Aguilera's album Stripped (2002), as well as Janet Jackson and Spears.  
Songwriting
In regard to Gomez's writing craft, co-writer Ali Tamposi revealed the following to Elle : "We actually started writing another song together while we were in the studio with Andrew Watt and I was really impressed by her collaboration, her ideas, how open she was and willing to tap into a place that is scary with having the power that she has over so many people—to really be honest with her lyrics," "She's extremely collaborative and she has great ideas. We'll just talk. I've only had the chance to get in with her once,  I'm sure we'll be working together, hopefully, in the future. But she comes up with tons of ideas and concepts, and she's a really great writer. It just flows naturally, and we just write on the guitar." 
During a conversation with Amy Schumer for Interview , Gomez candidly opened up about the writing process for her hit song, "Lose You to Love Me". Gomez said: "I wrote it at the beginning of last year, and had just gotten out of treatment. It was a moment when I came back and I was like, "I'm ready to go into the studio with people I trust and start working on songs." There was an air around it where people were very happy, because it was like I was going to finally be me. But I didn't necessarily see it that way at the time. When I wrote the song, I was basically saying that I needed to hit rock-bottom to understand that there was this huge veil over my face." 
On The Kelly Clarkson Show , Gomez opened up about of processing her own feelings through songwriting, calling it "the best therapy". 
In a conversation with Zane Lowe for Apple Music , Gomez was joined by Julia Michaels and Justin Tranter to talk about the creative process, incl. collaborative songwriting for her album, Rare . Gomez co-wrote every song on that album. 
Philanthropy and advocacy
UNICEF
In October 2008, Gomez participated in St. Jude's Children's Hospital 's "Runway For Life" by walking the runway as a model in Beverly Hills , where over $1 million was raised for the cause.   That same month, Gomez was named UNICEF 's spokesperson for the Trick-or-Treat for UNICEF campaign, which encouraged children to raise money on Halloween to help children around the world.  In August 2009, Gomez, then 17 years old, became the youngest UNICEF ambassador ( Millie Bobby Brown later surpassed this record).   In her first official field mission, Gomez traveled to Ghana in September 2009 for one week to witness first-hand the stark conditions of vulnerable children that lack vital necessities such as clean water, nourishment, education and healthcare.   Gomez explained in an interview with Associated Press correspondents that she wanted to use her star power to bring awareness to Ghana: "That's why I feel very honored to have a voice that kids listen to and take into consideration  I had people on my tour asking me where IS Ghana, and they Googled it  and because I went there, they now know where Ghana is. So it's pretty incredible."   Gomez said, of her role as ambassador, that "Every day 25,000 children die from preventable causes. I stand with UNICEF in the belief that we can change that number from 25,000 to zero. I know we can achieve this because every moment, UNICEF is on the ground providing children with the lifesaving assistance needed to ensure zero becomes a reality." 
Gomez was named spokesperson for UNICEF's 2009 Trick-or-Treat campaign for the second year in a row.  She raised over $700,000 for the charity in 2008 and stated that she hopes to be able to raise US$1 million in 2009.  Gomez participated in a celebrity auction  and hosted a live web cast series on Facebook in support of the Trick-or-Treat campaign.  She returned as the UNICEF spokesperson for the 60th anniversary of Trick-or-Treat for UNICEF campaign in 2010.  In celebration of the organization's 60th anniversary, Gomez and the Scene held a benefit concert, donating all proceeds to the campaign.  Gomez also encouraged teenagers to donate via social media. She also auctioned personal items to CharityBuzz.com , designed a Trick-or-Treat for UNICEF t-shirt and participated in a small concert in Los Angeles. With Gomez's help, UNICEF raised $4 million. 
In February 2011, Gomez traveled to Chile to meet with the families of the UNICEF-supported " Programa Puente ", which helped families better understand and develop skills to deal with early childhood education, development, and other issues related to raising children. Gomez remarked that "UNICEF is helping Chilean families get out of poverty, prevent violence within the home and promote education. To witness first hand these families' struggles, and also their hope and perseverance, was truly inspiring".  In March, Gomez participated in the UNICEF Tap Project 's "Celebrity Tap Pack" which featured limited-edition, custom-made water bottles with tap water from the homes of each celebrity advocate to raise funds and increase profile for the clean water and sanitation programs.  All the funds raised (the campaign raised $900,000) made it possible to provide clean, safe drinking water to children in Vietnam , Togo , Mauritania , and Cameroon - countries where it's desperately needed.   She was also featured in videos that promoted the campaign.   In April 2012, she advocated for the global "Sound the Alarm" campaign on Facebook and Twitter , and recorded a public announcement encouraging young people to donate $10 via text message to prevent the death of a million children from malnutrition in the Sahel Region of West and Central Africa . 
Gomez has conducted and organized three charity concerts (2010–2013) to help UNICEF provide children around the world with life-saving therapeutic foods, medicines, clean water, education, and immunization. In total, Gomez's three charity concerts for UNICEF have raised nearly $400,000 for UNICEF programs worldwide.     In 2014, Gomez visited Nepal to raise awareness for children in need.  A UNICEF ambassador since 2009, Gomez has played an active role in advocating for the world's "most vulnerable children" by participating in several campaigns, events, and initiatives on behalf of the organization.  In June 2021, Gomez signed a UNICEF open letter urging the G7 "to donate more coronavirus vaccines to the international COVAX initiative." 
Other charity work
Gomez was involved in the UR Votes Count campaign, which encouraged teenagers to learn more about 2008 presidential candidates Barack Obama and John McCain .  The following year, Gomez became the ambassador of DoSomething after being involved with the charity Island Dog, which helped dogs in Puerto Rico . Gomez updated fans on her blog at MySpace : "We are spending the day feeding puppies, washing them and hanging out with them. After we spend the day with them we are sending these dogs to different places in the U.S the no-kill dog shelters so they can find a home ."   She joined while filming Wizards of Waverly Place: The Movie in Puerto Rico.  In 2009, Gomez has been involved with the charity RAISE Hope For Congo, an initiative of the Enough Project , raising funds for war-torn African country, in order to raise awareness of conflict minerals and sexual crimes and violence committed against women and girls in the Congo, as well as to eliminate sexual violence, torture and other atrocities through the 4P method; Peace, Protection, Punishment and Prevention.  
From 2009 to 2012, Gomez was involved in " Disney's Friends for Change ", an organization which promoted "environmentally-friendly behavior", and appeared in its public service announcements .  Gomez, Demi Lovato , Miley Cyrus , and the Jonas Brothers recorded the charity single " Send It On " as the ad hoc musical team "Disney's Friends For Change", all of whose proceeds were donated into the Disney Worldwide Conservation Fund.  The song debuted on the Billboard Hot 100 at number 20.  Billboard included this song in their list of The 100 Greatest Disneyverse Songs of All Time (2023).  In April 2012, Gomez was named ambassador to the Ryan Seacrest Foundation.  The year before, Gomez made an appearance at The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia during a Ryan Seacrest Foundation broadcast from the hospital's multimedia center.  She was also a spokesperson for State Farm Insurance and appeared in numerous television commercials, which aired on the Disney Channel, to raise awareness of being a safe driver.  Gomez provided the narration for Girl Rising (2013), a CNN documentary film, which focused on the power of female education as it followed seven girls around the world who sought to overcome obstacles and follow their dreams. 
In 2017, during her partnership with Coach , Gomez participated in activities with Step Up, an organization that supports girls in under-resourced communities to pursue an education. Gomez attended Step Up events at two Los Angeles high schools. She conversed with the girls and gifted them new Coach bags.   Gomez attended the We Day California youth empowerment event in Los Angeles in 2018 and 2019. During the 2018 event, Gomez introduced Nellie Mainor, a young fan who had a rare kidney disease.  Her participation in We Day 2019 was her first appearance after an extended break from the spotlight.  Gomez continued her partnership with WE Charity when she traveled to Kenya in December 2019 to meet the local community and visit schools built by the organization.  During the 2019–20 Australian bushfire season , Gomez donated US$3 million to fight Australia wildfires and urged followers to do the same.  
In 2020, she created the Rare Impact Fund by Rare Beauty to help "young people gain access to mental health resources", which is committed to raise US$100 million over its first ten years since establishment. To achieve that goal, one percent of all sales of Rare Beauty products go toward the fund.  In its first year, the Rare Impact Fund distributed $1.2 million in grants to support 8 organizations that work to expand mental health services in educational settings.  For each episode of her HBO Max cooking show Selena + Chef (2020–2023), the show donated $10,000 to the charity of the chef's choice, often food related.  In 2021, over the first two seasons of the show, $360,000 was raised for nonprofit organizations.  Gomez donated 10 percent of the net proceeds from her cookware line with Our Place to the Rare Impact Fund, which focuses on mental health awareness.   From 2023-2024, Gomez and Sephora donate all 100 percent of global Rare Beauty sales to the Rare Impact Fund in honor of World Mental Health Day .    As of September 2024, the Rare Impact Fund has raised over $16 million since 2020, and distributed grants to support 26 mental health-focused organizations across five continents.  Serendipity Brands —which Gomez is a co-owner and investor of—donated $1 from every ice cream pint and product sold in May 2022 to the Rare Impact Fund.  In October, Gomez co-founded Wondermind, a mental health-focused digital platform.  In December 2022, she donated exclusive items to the 2nd Annual ASCAP Foundation , which supports music education and talent development programs across the US.  
In response to the Gaza war , Gomez and her cosmetics brand Rare Beauty issued a statement about the humanitarian crisis in Gaza , and donated funds to Magen David Adom in Israel and Palestinian Red Crescent Society in Gaza and the West Bank, and also donated to UNICEF to help get urgent medical relief and resources to the children of Gaza.  Both Gomez and Rare Beauty were heavily criticized for their misleading statement which implied solidarity with the people of Gaza, whilst they donated funds to Magen David Adom , which is an auxiliary service to the Israel Defense Forces .    Gomez signed an Artist4Ceasefire letter in October 2023 calling on President Joe Biden and Congress to call for an immediate cease-fire in Gaza. The letter says: "We believe that all life is sacred, regardless of faith or ethnicity, and we condemn the killing of Palestinian and Israeli civilians".  In December 2023, she attended Ramy Youssef 's fundraiser for Gaza . 
In January 2025, Gomez volunteered to help distribute basic necessities during the 2025 Southern California wildfires to those who were displaced by the tragedy, and also, together with her brand Rare Beauty, made donation to the Los Angeles Fire Department Foundation and World Central Kitchen , who are on the ground providing immediate aid.  During the pop-up of the fifth anniversary of her album, Rare , Gomez sent all proceeds from sales of all products to fight 2025 Southern California wildfires. 
Advocacy
Gomez advocates for various causes. She is known for frequently raising awareness on mental health.  In 2019, she received the McLean Award for mental health advocacy.  The Stanford Healthcare Innovation Lab honored her with the first ever Mental Health Innovations Award for Excellence in Mental Health Advocacy in 2022.  That year, she also received the Morton E. Ruderman Award in Inclusion by the Ruderman Family Foundation .  Gomez has shown support for the LGBT community . She joined numerous celebrities to write a "love letter" during pride month, as a part of Billboard ' s 30 Days of Pride during the month of June 2016. She also collaborated with 23 other artists for the charity single " Hands ", a tribute for the victims of the Pulse nightclub shooting , to raise funds for Equality Florida 's Pulse Victims Fund, GLAAD , and the GLBT Community Center of Central Florida.  That year, she donated proceeds of her Revival Tour concert in North Carolina to fight the state's recent legislation known as the "bathroom law;" The law, repealed in 2017, required people to use public restrooms in line with their birth gender unless they had fully transitioned.  In 2023, Gomez and her cosmetics brand Rare Beauty , participated in the 53rd annual Los Angeles Pride Parade ,  as well as her Rare Impact Fund has been donating funds since the foundation for The Trevor Project and in 2023 for Trans Lifeline who focus on LGBTQ+ youth.  In April 2024, Gomez participated as one of the speakers at the Time 100 Summit , which brought together the Global TIME 100 community to discuss encouragement and solutions for actions that aim to improve the future by telling the stories go global personalities and ideas that shape our world.  Gomez spoke about important issues related to mental health protection, social media and many others.  On May 1, 2024, Gomez held a special event dedicated to mental health awareness Rare Beauty Summit, where she also offered resources to solve mental health problems, the U.S. Surgeon General Vice Admiral Vivek Murthy joined her at this event, he thanked Gomez for creating the Rare Impact Fund and for paving the way for self-acceptance, support and healing. 
In 2014, Gomez spoke out about the 2014Gaza War , posting a message on her social media in which she asked for help and prayers for Gaza , the message read: "It's About Humanity. Pray for Gaza"., "Please pray for those families and babies today. Please always remember what's important in life. It's not any of this. We are here to help, inspire and love. Be that change. #wearethenextgeneration," Gomez wrote in the caption. A few hours later, she added that: "And of course to be clear, I am not picking any sides. I am praying for peace and humanity for all!" Gomez wrote in her message.  In the wake of the Alabama abortion ban in May 2019, Gomez spoke out on Instagram in favor of abortion rights in the United States .  Amidst Roe v. Wade being overturned in June 2022, Gomez stated she is "not happy" and that "men need to stand up and also speak against this issue. It's also the amount of women that are hurting."  Gomez is a critic of racism and supported the Black Lives Matter movement, lending her Instagram account to Alicia Garza , co-creator of Black Lives Matter and one of the founders of Black Futures Lab, in June 2020.   In May 2021, Gomez participated in the VAX Live: The Concert to Reunite the World concert organized by Global Citizen to promote the distribution of COVID-19 vaccines worldwide through the COVAX program. The event urged people to ask their governments to pledge $22.1 billion in aid to the vaccine distribution.  In May 2022, MTV partnered with Gomez and the Rare Impact Fund by Rare Beauty to host the Mental Health Youth Action Forum at the White House in coordination with the Biden-Harris Administration . 
Business and ventures
Products and endorsements
In 2009, Gomez was part of Sears 's back-to-school fashion campaign and featured in television commercials.  She hosted the "Sears Arrive Air Band Casting Call" to select five winners for the first-ever "Sears Air Band" to perform at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards .  She also became the spokesperson for Borden Milk and starred in campaign's print ads and television commercials for the brand. 
Having previously announced plans to launch a fashion line, Gomez released the Dream Out Loud collection in 2010.   It consisted of bohemian dresses, floral tops, jeans, skirts, jackets, scarves and hats, all of which were made from recycled or eco-friendly materials.   Gomez stated, "With my line, I really want to give the customer options on how they can put their own looks together  I want the pieces that can be easy to dress up or down, and the fabrics being eco-friendly and organic is super important  Also, the tags will all have some of my inspirational quotes on them. I'm just looking to send a good message."   Gomez teamed up with designers Tony Melillo and Sandra Campos for the project, both of whom had previously worked with big-name fashion houses .  Melillo and Campos teamed with New York-based Adjmi Apparel to manufacture the brand, which was formed by Adjmi CH Brands LLC, the holding company for the brand.  From 2010 to 2014, Gomez worked with retailer Kmart to release the clothing line.  
It was announced on July 14, 2011, that Gomez had signed a license agreement with Adrenalina, an extreme sports and adventure-themed lifestyle brand, to develop, manufacture, and distribute her own fragrance. Chairman and CEO of Adrenalina, Ilia Lekach , said, "We are incredibly enthused to be working with Ms. Gomez and will reveal more details pertaining to the fragrance as we get closer to the launch date."  The perfume was released in May 2012.  In 2013, she released her second fragrance, Vivamore by Selena Gomez.  She also created her own collection of nail polish colors for Nicole by OPI . 
From 2013 to 2015, Gomez was a spokesperson and partner for Neo by Adidas .  In 2015, Gomez signed $3 million endorsement deal with Pantene .  In 2016, Gomez appeared in a fashion campaign for luxury brand Louis Vuitton .  She also appeared in ads for Coca-Cola 's "Share a Coke" campaign, and advertisements for the campaign and lyrics from two of her songs were featured on Coca-Cola packaging nationwide.  In 2017, Gomez confirmed her collaboration with Coach , beginning with their fall line, thereby becoming the new face of the brand.  The limited-edition collection of handbags was called the "Selena Grace" line.  Gomez's second collection and "first ever ready-to-wear collection for Coach", named Coach X Selena Gomez, included clothing, outerwear, and bags.  That year, Gomez signed a $30 million contract with the athletic brand Puma as brand ambassador, appearing in campaigns such as those for the Phenom Lux sneakers released in March.    Her collection with Puma, called SG x PUMA Strong Girl collection, launched on December 12 of that year and contained products from sneakers to athleisure attire.  Since 2017, Gomez has been one of the highest-paid people on Instagram, becoming the highest paid-person on the platform of 2017. As of July 2023, Gomez earns $1.7 million per sponsored Instagram post. 
In April 2020, Gomez became an owner and investor of the ice cream brand Serendipity .  In July 2021, she released a swimwear line with La'Mariette.  In November, Gomez co-founded the mental health media platform Wondermind.  The following month, Gomez became an investor in the food delivery company Gopuff .  In May 2022, she collaborated with Our Place on a cookware line, the Summer Collection.  A second edition of the range was released in June 2023.  In February 2025, Gomez and Benny Blanco's collaboration "Talk" was previewed as the soundtrack to an Apple advertisement for the IPhone 16e , before its release the following month. 
Rare Beauty
In September 2020, Gomez launched her own makeup and cosmetics brand, Rare Beauty .  The brand " aims to help people feel good about themselves" by promoting inclusivity and mental health initiatives;  it sells cruelty-free and vegan products packaged with recyclable materials certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC).  Following its release on its official webstore and Sephora stores in the US,  the brand was eventually made available in the Middle East , Europe , and Southeast Asia .  It was named Startup of the Year at the 2020 WWD Beauty Inc Awards .  Rare Beauty was named as Time ' s most influential company of 2024.  
As of May 2024, the brand is valued at $2 billion.   It is one of the best-selling brands at Sephora and the fastest-growing celebrity beauty brand on social media .  Rare Beauty has already sold US$70 million worth of liquid blush (over 3.1 million units), in 2022 alone.  In 2023, Rare Beauty emerged as the top index brand on TikTok and Instagram, with a combined media impact value of US$313,198,657 on the two platforms alone.  That year, the estimated revenue for the line reached US$300 million, up approximately 50 percent from 2022.  In September 2024, it was reported that Gomez had become a billionaire , with an estimated net worth of $1.3 billion;  Bloomberg News estimated that roughly 81% of it originated from Rare Beauty.  Bloomberg also stated that at age 32, she had become "one of the country's youngest female self-made billionaires". 
Public image
Initially a teen idol , she has been referred to as a pop icon ,  as a " triple threat ", owing to her successful singing, performing, and acting careers,  and as one of the most influential Latina in entertainment.   Gomez is one of the most successful child stars.    Vulture ranked her third on its "Disney and Nickelodeon Stars Gone Pop" listicle, writing in 2021 that "Gomez is perhaps the most effortlessly likable star of her generation", and in the revision of this rating, named her as one of the few child stars with a successful music career as an adult.  Caroline Sullivan from The Guardian called Gomez the "Tween Queen", and "the biggest star attached to the Walt Disney Company ", describing the Gomez phenomenon as a key figure in the influence of "billions of kids and, through them, their parents' wallets", bringing billions to the company through "her image, TV series, movies, music records, perfume and clothing ranges" being in the spotlight "all this means that tweens can barely avoid her".  Billboard ranked her number 38 on its Decade-End listicle of the most successful artists of the 2010s decade.  With an estimated net worth of US$1.3 billion, Gomez is the first former Disney star to become a billionaire, being one of the wealthiest musicians and youngest self-made billionaires in the world.    
With over 690 million followers across various platforms, Gomez is the most-followed woman globally on social media, as of September 2024.   She is the most-followed woman on Instagram , as of 2025,  and was the most-followed person on the platform from March 2016 to October 2018.   She was the first person to surpass 100 million followers and the first woman to surpass 400 million followers on the platform.   Gomez held the record for most-liked image on Instagram in 2016, and has 4 out of the 15 most-liked non-football related posts on the app, as of 2024.  She is the seventh-most-followed woman on Twitter .  The actress with the most likes on Facebook, she is also the third-most-followed woman on the platform. 
Impact
 is not just a pop star, she's a multifaceted businesswoman with diverse income streams contributing to her impressive net worth ($1.3 billion).
She has had a huge impact on social media ,   with Hugh McIntyre from Forbes noting that "Gomez's posts, no matter what the image is actually of, are always liked by millions of people" and "in fact, the mere mention of Selena Gomez in a post by another star helps up the number of people who like it, proving her power".  She was named as the number one positive influencer on social media in 2022.  David Amsden from W named her "the most popular girl in America", writing that she "landed her first gig at 7, and by 14 was known to millions of prepubescent youths" and that "she embodies a particular strain of American fame: You know who she is without quite knowing who she is".  Variety considers her a key personality in global media, owing to her "multi-hyphenate" presence incorporating music, films, television, cosmetics, and social activism. 
In 2021, Rolling Stone India regarded her as one of the most influential pop culture icons of her time.  In 2017, Time honored her as one of the "women who are changing the world" on its First Women Leaders list.  Gomez was included in The Hollywood Reporter 's Power 100 list, from 2022 to 2024 consecutively, as one of the most powerful women in entertainment, a rating based on achievements, overall authority within company and Hollywood, and its position in the industry, naming her "one of the most globally and culturally celebrated artists, actors, producers, entrepreneurs and philanthropists of her generation".     People named Gomez as one of 15 women who are "changing the music industry today".  Vogue India named her as one of the "women who has inspire this generation", calling her "newsmaker" of pop culture headlines.  The Guardian credited her with popularizing "whisper pop", a style of pop music characterized by soft, hushed and breathy vocals. 
A wax figure of Gomez has been exhibited at Madame Tussauds Wax Museums since 2010, in Hollywood ,  New York City ,  Washington ,  Berlin ,  and her wax figure was the first in Orlando .  Gomez's work has inspired or influenced artists and entertainers such as Billie Eilish ,  Hailee Steinfeld ,  Vanessa Hudgens ,  Miranda Hart ,  Lady Gaga ,  Britney Spears ,  and the beginning of the careers of Jenna Ortega  and Joey King .  In 2015, Justin Bieber called Gomez an inspiration and muse of his songwriting at the time.  His album Purpose was inspired by Gomez;  he also wrote songs about her such as " What Do You Mean? ", " Sorry ", "Mark My Words",  " All That Matters ",  and " Beauty and a Beat ".  Britney Spears also named Gomez the main muse of her album, Glory .  
The Latin Recording Academy honored Gomez as one of the Leading Ladies of Entertainment for her "tremendous commercial success as a singer, actress and producer".  In October 2024, the Government of France granted Gomez the title of Chevalier de l'Ordre des arts et des lettres for "significant contribution to the enrichment of the French cultural inheritance".  The Hollywood Reporter awarded her the Equity in Entertainment Award that December, with Molly Shannon noting that she had used her voice to "change the world for the better" and "changed the entertainment landscape". Shannon called her "a role model, not just because of her immense talent and success, but because of the way she uses her influence to empower others. She challenges the status quo and creates a more inclusive, compassionate world for all." 
Achievements
Gomez has won various awards including: an American Music Award , a Billboard Music Award ,  a Cannes Film Festival , 16 Guinness World Records , three iHeartRadio Music Awards , six Latin American Music Awards (she is the fourth most-awarded female artist ), three MTV Movie & TV Awards , two MTV Video Music Awards , and five People's Choice Awards .  For her music work, she was nominated for two Grammy Awards (including Album of the Year as featuring artist) and a Latin Grammy Award .  For her acting work, she won a Satellite Award , and was nominated for three Critics' Choice Awards , four Golden Globe Awards , three NAACP Image Awards , and three Screen Actors Guild Awards .  As a producer, she was nominated for six Emmy Awards including: three times as producer for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series , marking her the most-nominated Latina producer in the category's history.  With 18 wins, Gomez is the fourth-most awarded solo artist at the Teen Choice Awards .  She currently holds the record for the most Kids' Choice Awards wins (12) for an individual.   In addition, she has also won numerous awards for her philanthropic, charity work and mental health advocacy, including the McLean Award ,  the Stanford Healthcare Innovation Lab Award ,  the Morton E. Ruderman Award in Inclusion from the Ruderman Family Foundation ,  and the Art Award from Hispanic Heritage Foundation for her impact on global culture via her music, filmography and advocacy. 
Having amassed 45 billion streams globally as of 2022,  Gomez is one of the most-streamed artist of all time.  She was the eight-most streamed and one of the most-streamed female artist of 2010s decade on both Spotify and Apple Music .   In 2017, she was third most streamed female artist on Spotify.  In November 2018, Gomez surpassed Drake and became Spotify's most-streamed artist with 46 million monthly listeners while not releasing new album since 2015 ( Ariana Grande later surpassed this record).  
Gomez has been included in many prestigious lists and has been awarded by prestigious publications and magazines. In 2015, Gomez was honored with the Chart-Topper Award at the Billboard Women in Music event.  The following year, she was named to Forbes ' 30 Under 30 list in the music category,  and again in 2020 in its "All-Star Alumni" category.  Billboard named Gomez the Woman of the Year in 2017,  included her in its list of Greatest of All Time Pop Songs Artists in 2018 (at number 31),  and named her one of the 100 most successful artist of the 2010s in 2019, ranking her at number 38.  Time included her on its annual list of the 100 most influential people in 2020. 
Gomez has the most successful Afrobeats song of all time with Calm Down .  The song broke the records as the highest- and longest-charting African artist-led song on the Hot 100,  the longest-running number-one of all time on the Billboard US Afrobeats Songs chart, with 58 weeks at the summit,  the longest-charting song in the top 10 and overall on the Pop Airplay chart, with 45 and 71 weeks respectively,  the first African artist-led track to reach 1 billion streams on Spotify,  and 1 billion on-demand streams in the US; its music video became the most-viewed Afrobeats song on YouTube.   Gomez is one of six woman to score at least three number-one singles on the Pop Airplay chart from a single set.  With her EP, Revelación and her single " Baila Conmigo ", she became the first female act to top the US Latin Albums and Latin Airplay charts simultaneously in over a decade.  Gomez is the longest active run of any artist with 16 consecutive top 40 hits on the Billboard Hot 100.  She broke the record with the song " Ice Cream " with Blackpink as the third-highest 24-hour debut for a music video on YouTube at the time, with over 79 million views, and the highest for female artist and female collaboration,  and the most-viewed music video published in 2016 on Youtube with " We Don't Talk Anymore " with Charlie Puth .  Gomez became the second woman to became Spotify's most-streamed artist in November 2018, with 46 million monthly listeners.  
Gomez has broken many variety of world records . Gomez has topped the Billboard 200 three consecutive times,  and the Billboard Hot 100 once,  and Billboard Artist 100 .  As of May 2017, she has sold 24.3 million songs in the United States,  and as of August 2023, she has sold 3.6 million albums in the US, and shifted more than 11.5 million album-equivalent units .   According to the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), she has 63 million certified units in the US.   She is one of the most-streamed artists on Spotify globally.  Seven of Gomez's songs have reached over one billion streams on Spotify,  and two of her music videos have reached over two billion views on YouTube (" We Don't Talk Anymore " is the most-viewed music video published in 2016 on it).   
Personal life
Property
Gomez owned a $6.6 million home in Calabasas, Los Angeles .  In 2014, she sold her mansion in Tarzana, Los Angeles for $3.5 million.  In 2015, she purchased a mansion in Fort Worth, Texas , for $3.5 million, and in October 2018 the house was sold.  In 2020, Gomez moved to a $5 million mansion in the Los Angeles neighborhood of Encino .  In the same year, she sold her house in Studio City, Los Angeles for $2.3 million. 
Beliefs
Gomez was raised Catholic . In 2005, at age 13, she wanted a purity ring , and her father went to the church and had it blessed. She has said, "He actually used me as an example for other kids: I'm going to keep my promise to myself, to my family and to God." Gomez stopped wearing the ring in 2010.  In 2014, Gomez said that she listened to " Oceans (Where Feet May Fail) " by Hillsong United before performing at the 2014 American Music Awards .  In 2016, she appeared at a Hillsong Young & Free concert in Los Angeles, leading worship by singing her song "Nobody".    When a fan on Twitter asked her who the lyrics to "Nobody" refer to, Gomez replied that they refer to God.  She also covered Hillsong Worship 's song "Transfiguration" during her Revival Tour.  In 2017, she said she did not like the term "religion" and that sometimes it "freaks me out", adding, "I don't know if it's necessarily that I believe in religion as much as I believe in faith and a relationship with God."  In 2017, she began to worship at Hillsong Church in Los Angeles,  and has said that she does not consider herself religious, but is more concerned with her faith and connection to God.   In 2021, she claimed to maintain her Christian faith and having read three times the book The Purpose Driven Life by Baptist Christian pastor Rick Warren . 
Health
Gomez was diagnosed with lupus sometime between 2012 and early 2014. In September 2017, she revealed on Instagram that she had withdrawn from public events during the previous few months because she had received a kidney transplant from actress and friend Francia Raisa .    During the transplant, an artery broke and emergency surgery was conducted to build a new artery using a vein from her leg.   
Gomez has been open about her struggles with both anxiety and depression . She began pursuing therapy in her early twenties and also spent time in treatment facilities. When she reached 100 million Instagram followers, Gomez said she "sort of freaked out" and has since taken several extended breaks from social media, due in part to negative comments.  In April 2020, she revealed she has bipolar disorder .  
In October 2022, Gomez canceled an appearance on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon after testing positive for COVID-19 .  In November 2022, she revealed that she had an episode of psychosis in 2018.  In September 2024, Gomez revealed her inability to have children naturally due to her health issues, and mentioned wanting to explore either surrogacy or adoption in the future.  In November 2024, she disclosed her suffering with small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO). 
Relationships
Gomez dated singer Nick Jonas in 2008. She appeared in the music video for his band 's song " Burnin' Up ".  From December 2010 to March 2018, Gomez was in an on-again, off-again relationship with Canadian singer Justin Bieber .   During their breakups, she briefly dated Russian-German disc jockey Zedd and Canadian singer-songwriter the Weeknd .  
As of June 2023, Gomez is in a relationship with record producer Benny Blanco .   She formally announced their engagement on December 11, 2024,  following a period of media rumors. 
Filmography
According to the review aggregator site Rotten Tomatoes , Gomez's television and film projects include The Suite Life of Zack & Cody (2006), Hannah Montana (2007), Wizards of Waverly Place (2007–2012), Another Cinderella Story (2008), Princess Protection Program (2009), Ramona and Beezus (2010), The Muppets (2011), Spring Breakers (2012), Hotel Transylvania (2012–2022), Girl Rising (2013), The Wizards Return: Alex vs. Alex (2013), Rudderless (2014), The Fundamentals of Caring (2016), Neighbors 2: Sorority Rising (2016), The Dead Don't Die (2019), A Rainy Day in New York (2019), Selena + Chef (2020–2023), Only Murders in the Building (2021–present), Selena Gomez: My Mind & Me (2022), Emilia Pérez (2024), and Wizards Beyond Waverly Place (2024–2025).  Gomez also executive produced the television series 13 Reasons Why (2017–2020) and Living Undocumented (2019). 
Discography
Selena Gomez & the Scene studio albums
Solo studio albums
Collaborative studio albums
Tours
Selena Gomez & the Scene tours
Solo tours